IQAC


Internal Quality Assurance Cell

Introduction

Adhiparasakthi Engineering College (APEC) establishes an Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) as a quality sustenance measure as per the guidelines of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Since quality enhancement is a continuous process, the IQAC will become a part of the institution’s system and work towards realisation of the goals of quality enhancement and sustenance.

The main aim of the IQAC is to develop a system for conscious, consistent, and catalytic improvement in the overall performance of institutions. For this, during the post-accreditation period, institutions need to channel their efforts and measures toward promoting holistic academic excellence including the peer committee recommendations.

Objectives

The aim of IQAC is,

To develop a system for conscious, consistent and catalytic action to improve the academic and administrative performance of the institution.
To promote measures for institutional functioning towards quality enhancement through internalization of quality culture and institutionalization of best practices.
Strategies
IQAC shall evolve mechanisms and procedures for,

Ensuring timely, efficient, and progressive performance of academic, administrative, and financial tasks,
Relevant and quality academic/ research programs,
Equitable access to and affordability of academic programmes for various sections of society
Optimization and integration of modern methods of teaching and learning
The credibility of the assessment and evaluation process
Ensuring the adequacy, maintenance, and proper allocation of support structure and services
Sharing of research findings and networking with other institutions in India and abroad.
Functions
Some of the functions of the IQAC are,

Development and application of quality parameters for various academic and administrative activities of the institution
Facilitating the creation of a learner-centric environment conducive to quality education and faculty maturation to adopt the required knowledge and technology for participatory teaching and learning process
Collection and analysis of feedback from all stakeholders on quality-related institutional processes
Dissemination of information on various quality parameters to all stakeholders
Organization of workshops, seminars on quality related themes and promotion of quality circles
Documentation of the various programs/activities leading to quality improvement
Acting as a nodal agency of the Institution for coordinating quality-related activities, including the adoption and dissemination of best practices
Development and maintenance of institutional database through MIS for the purpose of maintaining/enhancing the institutional quality
Periodical conduct of Academic and Administrative Audit
Preparation and submission of the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) as per guidelines and parameters of NAAC.
Benefits
IQAC will contribute to,

Ensure clarity and focus in institutional functioning toward quality enhancement
Ensure internalization of the quality culture;
Ensure enhancement and coordination among various activities of the institution and
institutionalize all good practices;
Provide a sound basis for decision-making to improve institutional functioning;
Act as a dynamic system for quality changes
Build an organized methodology of documentation and internal communication.
Composition of IQAC
The Internal Quality Assurance Cell is constituted under the Chairmanship of the Head of the institution with heads of department, administrative units, a few teachers, a few distinguished educationists, representatives of local management, and stakeholders.

The composition of the IQAC is as follows:

1. Chairperson: Head of the Institution

2. Teachers to represent all levels (Three to eight)

3. One member from the Management

4. Few Senior administrative officers

5. One nominee each from local society, Students, and Alumni

6. One nominee each from Employers /Industrialists/Stakeholders

7. One of the senior teachers as the coordinator/Director of the IQAC